Welcome back all.
So today we're going to go ahead and give our application and ability to create a lot so that we may
see when was the accountant created or when was it deleted or something like that.
We will make our own log service.
However we will primarily use console logs what our consul logs.
Well every single browser has them.
They have different shortcuts for them.
These are like my chapters on the web or on the local web server here.
And if you basically just press F 12 there you go.
These are console logs.
I can go to the angular website and there you go.
You get some sort of an output here what exactly you get.
Well I don't know.
You basically will be able to specify.
You will be passing messages and depending on the messages that are passed those are the sort of logs
that will be printed out here.
But we would like to be able to store those logs and to manipulate them and we would like to have more
control over the logging process itself.
So we will have our own service and that's not the primary reason actually the primary reason for us
having our own logging service is because we don't want to go through every individual part of the application
and actually call the logging service here.
The built in one rather instead we want to have our own logging service where we use the built in met
system for logging and then we just keep on calling our own utility which we can modify and change in
any way we like meaning that we only need to create modifications in one place and they will be applied
across the board throughout our application.
So the very first thing we need to do is basically right click on app and click on an audio file sorry
right click on app we need the new folder new folder in the new folder name will be utils So you till
And then what can you tell.
We're going to go ahead and create a new file in this new file will be for basically a logger dot service
that TS augured US service that D.S. and I spell that right.
Hopefully I did.
Exxon So you got it here.
Let me just copy paste this code here and then I'll explain it.
Excellent.
So most of the code you know here so we're just importing injectable.
I've talked about this extensively before.
And then we're making this class injectable And we're also exporting class.
All of these things have been done before so this is a longer service class but down below there is
a method and this method is public method.
It's called alog and it reads it receives a variable of type string.
So a variable called M-S G.
And then it's calling a built in function console that log and we're passing a message to the string
basically that cancel that log which in turn is printed out onto the consulate of the browser.
The one that I have showed you a moment ago open up your browser you open up a website and press have
12 and you can see the logs basically or reload the site one more time to actually see the actual logs.
OK.
So this will be our logging service our logger service here we're going to perform all sorts of modifications.
As I said this part has been explained before more than once.
And the only new thing here is actually this console dock log built in method every browser has this
ability if you can find the browser that doesn't.
Well while anyway let's go ahead and move on.
So we need to go into the account that service that service that TS.
So let's go there.
UPS let me just save this file close this actual exclusivity it just reopened this file.
Excellent.
So there was one more one new thing that we have imported here so optional is a decorator which basically
states that the injected parameter.
Basically here that the injected parameter will be optional so if it's not initialized it will basically
be set to null.
It won't give us the error message rather instead it will just be set to now why are we doing this.
Well because we would like to have control over the logs whether they are created or not whether or
not the logging process is actually taking place or not.
And so if we initialize it great log if we do not initialize it don't crash don't give an error just
continue and that's it.
That's why we have created this constructor here and so that we would be able to inject the service.
So we have a longer service here.
And that we could use it.
Basically the optional ops most mouse to be running away.
The optional decorator here at the one basically the Scraw that I described a moment ago that makes
this program that makes this parameter actually optional what are initialized or not.
We basically we need it here because we didn't provide the logger's service anywhere here you can see
that we didn't really do any anything with it.
We didn't specify it.
We didn't initialized we didn't perform anything with it.
We've just stated it here and it's not going to work.
Not just yet but because you have an optional here.
This is not a mandatory thing.
And notice that I've written here private in front of the private variable logger.
What does this mean.
Well if you go to the.
Which one was it.
Is a tough component.
You just scroll down and find it.
There we go.
So as you can see we have the constructor and then you have a counter service type account service and
we had to put it into an actual variable because it doesn't exist outside of this constructor.
However this one because simply due to the fact that it's private it actually exists outside of this
constructor and can be used.
Basically this is the equivalent of me writing this private logger.
So it exists outside.
Just because I've stated that it's private is just a handy trick so you don't have to store it in a
different variable which is actually defined outside anyway.
If you go down down down Rigaud and just under remove the Riego.
So it says OK yeah.
These two are the same.
So there is an IF condition here.
It's as if it's a public method create.
So we did it within the create method we're giving the ability for the log files to be created for the
logging for the logging process to actually take place.
It says if and then it's pointing to the log or private variable.
So if this is not all that's means it's going to be false so this condition will be evaluated as false.
And this year will not occur.
However if the logger is initialized with anything other than 0 or now then this condition will be evaluated
as true.
And we will have a log printed out.
It will be account created and then the title of the account we could add more and more things here.
The same logic applies here.
Basically if an initialized do nothing this is not going to happen if initialized.
OK.
Go ahead and create a log that the account has been deleted.
So for the time being going to bid you farewell and we shall see each other in the follow up tutorial
hopefully.